>> Scott Moss: All right,
good morning, everyone.
Thanks for coming to the GraphQL course
for the client side using React.
I'm Scott Moss,
I'm gonna be instructor today.
I love GraphQL, I use GraphQL every single
day at my company, been using it for
years.
I've taught GraphQL here at
Frontend Masters a couple of times and
this is the first time I'm getting to
talk to you all about using GraphQL on
the frontend which is slightly different
than using it on the server side.
And, if you're interested in
that we have courses for that.
We have an advanced GraphQL
course on the server side.
We also have a intro to GraphQL for
the server side.
So definitely check those out
if you're interested in that.
But this course is gonna be focused
purely on using GraphQL on the frontend
using React.
>> Scott Moss: So, to hop right into it,
understanding what GraphQL is
specifically for the client side.
GraphQL, at least the way Facebook
used GraphQL when it was initially
created was they intended for
GraphQL to be used solve frontend
problems, as far as like UI related.
So, you build the UI mostly in some
component architecture using a framework
like React, or Vue, or whatever your
favorite library is, or framework.
And then those components have props, and
usually those component's props are shaped
a certain way using something like
prop types, or something like that.
So, you get to the point
where you start designing or
modeling data on the frontend exactly
the same way that your components needed.
So that eventually just translates over to
like, well, if the in-memory state that
we have on the client is modeled in a way
that our components can just consume,
how can we extend that to have
the data from the server coming back
the exact same way that
our components as well?
And now those are some of the first steps
of getting what we have now which is
GraphQL.
So that's basically what the purpose
of GraphQL on the frontend is.
Like how do we consume data from
the server in the exact shape,
the exact type that we needed to display
it so we can just take it from the server,
throw it right on the page
without having to do anything?
Just completely eliminate that.
I need to do any post transformations or
processing and just throw it on the page,
and that's kind of where it started.
And now, GraphQL has evolved
into like a whole another beast.
It's more than just a way to
fetch data from a server to throw
inside of a component.
It's actually its own language and
its own process to build a schema for
anything and write queries to
resolve into whatever you want.
We're just using it for
data on a server and on the bracket.
So for this course,
I have a repo for everyone.
So first thing, let's just get started
with that, cuz if you go to GitHub,
Frontend Masters it's going to be,
>> Scott Moss: Fullstack GraphQL.
>> Scott Moss: And, you can fort that.
And then once you do that you need
to check out to the client branch.
If you already have the repos
just do a fetch and
then check out to the client branch.
The master branch has
some server side stuff.
There's a solution branch that
has all the stuff completed.
But what we're focusing on today
will be the client branch,
which is everything you need.
So go ahead and check out to that one.
And then in the read me, there's a link
to the slides that we'll be using today,
so follow along or you can just watch me.
>> Scott Moss: There are no dependencies
other than just having node version
greater than six purely frontend.
Everything is already in the pack.
Is that JSON?
I don't even think you
have to install anything.
I have everything in the pack is that
JSON have everything in the yarn lock so
I don't think you even have that,
you can run it install command other than
the initial one when you
pull this repo down.
>> Scott Moss: So the first thing is,
I want to talk about GraphQL,
to the big picture like, what is it?
Like when people's mentioned GraphQL, I
think there's like different scenarios of
what they could be talking about because
GraphQL itself covers a lot of things.
But, basically what I think of GraphQL
is this is kinda like my definition
is it's a spec that describes
a declarative query language that your
clients can use to ask an API for
the exact data they want.
This is achieved by creating
a strongly type schema for your API,
ultimate flexibility and
how your API can resolve data and
client queries validated
against your schema.
All that just sounds crazy.
But, it took me a while to come
up the definition because it's so
many different things what
I believe GraphQL is.
So basically what this is saying is if
you ever use any strong type language
like Java or TypeScript,
anything like that,
imagine putting a type system
in front of an existing API.
And then now, on any client they
want to interact with the API.
They could leverage that type system to
ask the API for exactly what they want it.
So, if you created some
types of some fields on it,
then you could from the client side, give
me this data with these exact fields and
the API will respond back
with that exact shape.
Just like if you were using a type
system on a strongly typed language.
It's basically that as far as like
how the client interacts with it
server side as you find out,
there's a lot more to it.
It's actually a graph,
you're creating a graph.
If you don't know what a graph is.
You're gonna learn what a graph is and
and we'll get into it.
Any questions on that, on what is GraphQL?
After me telling you this definition,
I don't expect you to know
everything about GraphQL.
So, if you still don't know
what GraphQL is, that's fine.
This is just to give you some context.
>> Scott Moss: So like I said,
it's just a spec.
GraphQL itself is not a repo somewhere,
it's not a framework.
It's literally just a spec,
and here's the link to it.
If you click this,
it'll actually take you to the spec
that was created by the people who
created GraphQL which is Facebook.
Facebook created GraphQL,
and here's the spec for it.
And it changes all the time.
And if we would go to look at this one
they have here, you start scrolling,
yeah, it looks like what a spec
looks like, very boring.
A lot of stuff that you probably don't
wanna read and it just scrolls forever.
That's what a spec is.
So, if you really wanna understand
how GraphQL works and the ins and
outs, then go do this.
This is what GraphQL is,
it's just this spec.
>> Scott Moss: So, see how Facebook
created this spec which spawned from some
internal thing that they were using.
There are several implementations and
variations of that spec.
So like I said, it's just a spec, people
from the community, including Facebook
themselves have taken that spec and
created different libraries and
frameworks and implementations,
based off languages and platforms and
like there's so
many different graphical things out there